---
tools:
  - IntelliJ IDEA
  - Postman
  - Google Chrome
  - Git
  - GitHub
  - Paper & Pencil
  - Java
  - Gradle
  - Javalin
  - Jackson
  - JUnit
  - SQLite
  - JavaScript
  - Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) & Cascading Style Sheets (CSS)
  - React
  - JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)
  - Heroku
  - Travis CI
  - Markdown
---

# Assignment 10: Open-Source

# Working on the Assignment

<video src="https://archive.org/download/jhu-oose/oose--assignments--10.mp4" controls preload="none"></video>

# Semantic Versioning

<small>
**5 points**
</small>

Let’s start assigning version numbers to the different versions of TODOOSE following the convention of [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org).

By the end of the [video series](/todoose), [TODOOSE reached 1.0.0](https://github.com/jhu-oose/todoose/tree/2791792358553945d9c431ce1e672b0278c3c8ed).

1. In [Assignment 5](/assignments/5) we implemented the feature to show and hide completed items, as opposed to just removing them from the database forever. We want to release a new version of TODOOSE, what version number should it be? Why?

2. In [Assignment 8](/assignments/8) we implemented user management: authentication (user signup & login), and authorization (only logged in users can see the list of items). In the assignment we only implemented the server part of these features, but suppose that we have now completed the rest of the feature, with the client, documentation, tests, and so forth. We want to release a new version of TODOOSE, what version number should it be? Why?

# Governance Models

<small>
**10 points**
</small>

[In lecture](/lectures/10) we talked about how different open-source communities are organized and how it’s important to understand these organizational structures to use and contribute to open source effectively.

Many of the tools in the [Toolbox](/toolbox) are open source. For each of the following, find out what’s their organizational structure. Are they backed by a company (if so, which company)? Are they driven by a committee or a team of people (if so, who’s in it)? Or are they led by [some lonely guy living in his mother’s basement](https://vignette.wikia.nocookie.net/simpsons/images/9/9c/IMG_6116.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/250?cb=20161030093222) (if so, who’s that person)?

- [Postman](/toolbox/#application-programming-interfaceapi-development-environmentade-postman).
- [Git](/toolbox/#version-control-systemvcs-git).
- [Gradle](/toolbox/#build-system-gradle).
- [Javalin](/toolbox/#web-server-javalin).
- [JUnit](/toolbox/#testing-framework-junit).
- [React](/toolbox/#user-interface-builder-react).

# Technology

<small>
**20 points**
</small>

You’re working on a contribution to [TODOOSE](https://github.com/jhu-oose/todoose). Your work-in-progress is on the [`open-source`](https://github.com/jhu-oose/todoose/tree/open-source) branch, and when you show it to the maintainers of the project, you get this response:

> Thanks for contributing. We like what you have there, but before we can accept your contribution, please rebase your commits onto `master` and squash them into a single commit. In case of a conflict, discard whatever you find on the `master` branch and accept your changes instead.

Answer the following questions:

1. Why are the maintainers asking you to _rebase_ the commits?

2. Why are the maintainers asking you to _squash_ the commits?

3. On your machine, fetch from [`jhu-oose/todoose`](https://github.com/jhu-oose/todoose), switch to the `open-source` branch, perform the changes requested by the maintainers, and push the result to a branch called `open-source` on your student’s repository at `https://github.com/jhu-oose/{{site.course}}-student-<your-github-identifier>`. **Don’t fork the TODOOSE repository or you risk publishing your answers publicly, which is a violation of the [Academic Integrity policy](/policies#academic-integrity). Use the same workflow you used in the programming assignments, for example, [Assignment 4](/assignments/4).**

# Licenses

<small>
**15 points**
</small>

The enterprise embraced open source. Let’s explore the choices of licenses these companies are making and go beyond the tools in the [Toolbox](/toolbox). For each of the projects below, name the company behind the open source project, the license they’re using for that project, and speculate why they’re choosing that license:

- Visual Studio Code.
- MySQL Community Edition.
- 🤗 [Transformers](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers).

# Let’s Open Source!

You finally landed that sweet gig on Facebook. But that isn’t the only thing you have going on: your side projects are also flourishing. In fact, one of these projects reached a point where it’s ready to become public. You want to release this as an open-source project for other people and companies to use and contribute to.

1. **20 points** What’s your project about? (If this is a real side-project that you have, it’s even better.) Where do you see this project going in the next one or two years? Why do you want to open source it?

2. **10 points** Consider your contractual obligations to Facebook. What do you have discuss with them before you release your work?

3. **10 points** An open-source project is not only the code. What other logistics do you need to consider to publish your project to GitHub?

4. **10 points** What can you do to foster a community around your project? Do something original that you don’t typically find in other open-source projects.

{% capture assignment_submission_form_extra_fields %}

<fieldset markdown="1">

<legend markdown="1">Anonymous Feedback on the Course Overall</legend>

**Would You Recommend the Course to a Friend?**  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[course][recommend]" value="yes" required>
Yes.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[course][recommend]" value="no" required>
No.
</label>  

<label for="feedback--course--liked">
**At Least One Specific Thing That You Liked**
</label>
<textarea name="feedback[course][liked]" id="feedback--course--liked" required></textarea>

<label for="feedback--course--improved">
**At Least One Specific Thing That You Think Should Be Improved**
</label>
<textarea name="feedback[course][improved]" id="feedback--course--improved" required></textarea>

**Were You Happy with the Support Provided by the Course Staff?**  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[course][staff][liked]" value="yes" required>
Yes.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[course][staff][liked]" value="no" required>
No.
</label>  

<label for="feedback--course--staff--open-ended">
**At Least One Specific Thing You Would Like to Say About the Support Provided by the Course Staff**
</label>
<textarea name="feedback[course][staff][open-ended]" id="feedback--course--staff--open-ended" required></textarea>

</fieldset>

<fieldset markdown="1">

<legend markdown="1">Anonymous Experience with the Tools in the [Toolbox](/toolbox)</legend>

{% for tool in page.tools %}
**{{tool}}**  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[toolbox][{{ tool | slugify }}][learned]" value="already-comfortable" required>
I was **already comfortable** with it before the course.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[toolbox][{{ tool | slugify }}][learned]" value="became-comfortable" required>
I **became comfortable** with it in the course.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[toolbox][{{ tool | slugify }}][learned]" value="still-know-little" required>
I **still know little** about it.
</label>

<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[toolbox][{{ tool | slugify }}][taste]" value="dread" required>
I **dread** it.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[toolbox][{{ tool | slugify }}][taste]" value="indifferent" required>
I’m **indifferent** to it.
</label>  
<label>
<input type="radio" name="feedback[toolbox][{{ tool | slugify }}][taste]" value="like" required>
I **like** it.
</label>
{% endfor %}

</fieldset>

{% endcapture%}

{% include assignment_submission_form.md assignment="10" extra_fields=assignment_submission_form_extra_fields %}
