# Assignment 7: Implementation · Investigating Mysteries

Consult the [lecture notes](/lectures/7), including the notes under “More Information” that were added after the lecture.

# Character Encodings

1. What’s the difference between ASCII, Unicode, UTF-8, and UTF-16?

2. What’s the difference between an Unicode code point and a the encoding of a character in UTF-8?

3. What are the Unicode normal forms?

4. For what can you use Unicode normal forms?

5. What are the differences between the following strings?

   ```
   I love OOSE-at least I think I do.
   I love OOSE—at least I think I do.
   ```

6. When would you use the characters that are unique to the first string above? When would you use the characters that are unique to the second?

7. Where in this website can you find the characters that are unique to the second string above?

8. What’s your favorite weird Unicode code point?

# Floating Point Numbers

1. What’s the standard for defining floating point numbers (in JavaScript and many other languages)?

2. What’s a project in which it makes sense to use floating point numbers?

3. What’s a project in which it makes sense to use numbers with more precision?

4. What’s a project in which it doesn’t matter what kind of number you use?

# Dates & Times

I submitted my [Assignment 5](/assignments/5) and [Roboose](https://github.com/jhu-oose/roboose) said that the time of my submission was `2019-10-11T14:35:00.000Z`.

1. In what format is this?

2. What do each of the parts mean?

3. What time was it in Baltimore when I submitted my assignment?

4. How many late days (if any) did I use?

# The Mystery of That Which Was Itself

Solve the mystery in a systematic way, showing how you go through the steps we discussed in [lecture](/lectures/7). After you followed the steps, discuss what the problem is, why it happens, how to fix it, and how to prevent this kind of error in the future.

# Challenge Your Assumptions

Go over some of [these lists of things that people assume but that are false](https://github.com/kdeldycke/awesome-falsehood). Compile a list of the 10 assumptions that surprised you the most.
